= FTP

== Blind/Anonymous FTP Server

Install ProFTPd:

  sudo apt-get install proftpd      # select the 'standalone' option

The following is a configuration file for a blind, anonymous-only FTP server. Users can upload and download but cannot see directory contents and cannot overwrite existing files. Much advice was taken from the excellent ProFTPd Limit clause documentation (http://www.proftpd.org/docs/howto/Limit.html).

  #
  # /etc/proftpd/proftpd.conf -- This is a basic ProFTPD configuration file.
  # To really apply changes reload proftpd after modifications.
  # 

  # Includes DSO modules
  Include /etc/proftpd/modules.conf

  # Set off to disable IPv6 support which is annoying on IPv4 only boxes.
  UseIPv6               on

  ServerName            "Debian"
  ServerType            standalone
  DeferWelcome          off

  MultilineRFC2228      on
  DefaultServer         on
  ShowSymlinks          on

  TimeoutNoTransfer     600
  TimeoutStalled        600
  TimeoutIdle           1200

  ListOptions           "-l"

  DenyFilter            \*.*/

  # Use this to jail all users in their homes 
  DefaultRoot           ~
  
  # Don't reveal any unnecessary server information
  IdentLookups          off
  ServerIdent           on "FTP Server ready."

  # Users require a valid shell listed in /etc/shells to login.
  # Use this directive to release that constrain.
  # RequireValidShell   off

  # Port 21 is the standard FTP port.
  Port                  21

  # In some cases you have to specify passive ports range to by-pass
  # firewall limitations. Ephemeral ports can be used for that, but
  # feel free to use a more narrow range.
  # PassivePorts        49152 65534

  # If your host was NATted, this option is useful in order to
  # allow passive tranfers to work. You have to use your public
  # address and opening the passive ports used on your firewall as well.
  # MasqueradeAddress   1.2.3.4

  # To prevent DoS attacks, set the maximum number of child processes
  # to 30.  If you need to allow more than 30 concurrent connections
  # at once, simply increase this value.  Note that this ONLY works
  # in standalone mode, in inetd mode you should use an inetd server
  # that allows you to limit maximum number of processes per service
  # (such as xinetd)
  MaxInstances          30

  # Set the user and group that the server normally runs at.
  User                  proftpd
  Group                 nogroup

  # Umask 022 is a good standard umask to prevent new files and dirs
  # (second parm) from being group and world writable.
  Umask                 022  022

  # Don't allow overwriting existing files
  AllowOverwrite        off

  # Uncomment this if you are using NIS or LDAP via NSS to retrieve passwords:
  # PersistentPasswd    off

  # This is required to use both PAM-based authentication and local passwords
  # AuthOrder           *mod_auth_pam.c mod_auth_unix.c

  # Be warned: use of this directive impacts CPU average load!
  # Uncomment this if you like to see progress and transfer rate with ftpwho
  # in downloads. That is not needed for uploads rates.
  #
  # UseSendFile         off

  # Choose a SQL backend among MySQL or PostgreSQL.
  # Both modules are loaded in default configuration, so you have to specify the backend 
  # or comment out the unused module in /etc/proftpd/modules.conf.
  # Use 'mysql' or 'postgres' as possible values.
  #
  #<IfModule mod_sql.c>
  # SQLBackend          mysql
  #</IfModule>

  TransferLog /var/log/proftpd/xferlog
  SystemLog   /var/log/proftpd/proftpd.log

  <IfModule mod_quotatab.c>
  QuotaEngine off
  </IfModule>

  <IfModule mod_ratio.c>
  Ratios off
  </IfModule>


  # Delay engine reduces impact of the so-called Timing Attack described in
  # http://security.lss.hr/index.php?page=details&ID=LSS-2004-10-02
  # It is on by default. 
  <IfModule mod_delay.c>
  DelayEngine on
  </IfModule>

  <IfModule mod_ctrls.c>
  ControlsEngine        off
  ControlsMaxClients    2
  ControlsLog           /var/log/proftpd/controls.log
  ControlsInterval      5
  ControlsSocket        /var/run/proftpd/proftpd.sock
  </IfModule>

  <IfModule mod_ctrls_admin.c>
  AdminControlsEngine off
  </IfModule>

  #
  # Alternative authentication frameworks
  #
  #Include /etc/proftpd/ldap.conf
  #Include /etc/proftpd/sql.conf

  #
  # This is used for FTPS connections
  #
  #Include /etc/proftpd/tls.conf

  # Deny all user logins (anonymous access only)
  <Limit LOGIN>
    DenyAll
  </Limit>

  # Anonymous configuration
  <Anonymous ~ftp>
    User                    ftp
    Group                   nogroup
    
    # We want clients to be able to login with "anonymous" as well as "ftp"
    UserAlias               anonymous ftp
    
    # Cosmetic changes, all files belongs to ftp user
    DirFakeUser             on ftp
    DirFakeGroup            on ftp

    RequireValidShell       off

    # Limit the maximum number of anonymous logins
    MaxClients              10

    # Allow login for anonymous user
    <Limit LOGIN>
      AllowAll
    </Limit>

    # Deny directory listings (make blind)
    <Directory *>
      <Limit LIST NLST MLSD MLST STAT>
        DenyAll
      </Limit>
    </Directory>
  </Anonymous>


== Delete Old Files

To delete files which have not been accessed in the past 30 days, add to root's crontab:

  0 3 * * * find /home/ftp -type f -atime +30 -delete

